Professor Luna Scamander (née Lovegood) (b. 13 February 1981) was a witch and the only child and daughter of Xenophilius and Pandora Lovegood. Her mother accidentally died while experimenting with spells when Luna was nine and thus Luna was raised by her father, editor of the magazine The Quibbler, in a rook-like house near the village of Ottery St Catchpole in Devon.

Luna attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry from 1992 to 1999 and was sorted into Ravenclaw House. In her fourth year, Luna joined Dumbledore's Army, an organisation taught and led by Harry Potter, of which she became an important member. She participated in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries (1996) and the Battle of the Astronomy Tower (1997), and co-led the reconstituted Dumbledore's Army when Hogwarts fell under the control of Lord Voldemort with Severus Snape as Headmaster.

Because of her father's political dissidence at the time, Luna was abducted by Death Eaters to be held ransom, and imprisoned in the dungeons of Malfoy Manor for months. She was freed by Dobby along with several other prisoners in the spring of 1998, and stayed at Shell Cottage until she returned to Hogwarts to participate in the final battle of the Second Wizarding War.

After the war, Luna became a Magizoologist, discovering and classifying many magical species that had never been encountered before, and later also a Hogwarts professor teaching Field Studies, a new course dedicated to studying and interacting with magical creatures in the wilderness. She married Rolf Scamander, the grandson of Newt Scamander, a famed Magizoologist, with whom she had twin sons, Lorcan and Lysander. Luna's good friends Harry and Ginny Potter also named their daughter and third child Lily Luna Potter in honour of her.

Biography
Early life (1981–1992)
Luna was born on 13 February 1981, the only child of Xenophilius and Pandora Lovegood. It is presumed that Luna had a nice family life based on her later attitude about her life. However, this was all changed when Pandora was accidentally killed while experimenting with a spell that she created when Luna was nine years old. Thus, Luna was subsequently raised by Xenophilius alone for the rest of her life. As she witnessed her mother's death, she was able to see Thestrals, the magical skeletal black horses that led the Hogwarts carriages, from that point onward.

At some point between 1984 and 1991, the young Luna was entertained by an equine creature from the Magical Creatures Reserve, which was requested by a British Ministry of Magic employee and subsequently became best friends with Luna.


Hogwarts years (1992–1999)
Luna started attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1992 and was sorted into Ravenclaw House. One year behind the famous Harry Potter, she noticed Thestrals on her very first day of school.

During her years at Hogwarts, she was often teased by many of the other students due to her strange behaviour and odd beliefs. Some time during her early years at Hogwarts students had also taken to calling her "Loony Lovegood". Luna also met and became a friend of Ginny Weasley, who was in the same year as her. In the summer of 1994, she went to the Quidditch World Cup with her father.

In her third year at Hogwarts, she chose Divination as an elective, as in the 1996–1997 school year Professor Trelawney claimed to miss her in class; Luna explained she had Firenze that year. She may also have attended Study of Ancient Runes, as before the 1995–1996 school year, she was seen reading an article written about runes in The Quibbler.

Fourth year

In Luna's fourth year, she met and befriended Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger, and Neville Longbottom. She also was one of the few who believed Harry's declaration that Lord Voldemort was back. As the year progressed, she was invited to join an underground Defence Against the Dark Arts group called Dumbledore's Army, which was taught and led by Harry Potter. This organisation was to teach practical defence so that students could fend off Death Eaters.

Luna eagerly accepted the request, working hard along with the others and enjoying their company. In an effort to make people believe Harry's story, Hermione arranged an interview for him with Rita Skeeter at the Three Broomsticks — Luna accompanied them so as to persuade her father to publish the interview in The Quibbler. The copy sold out, every Hogwarts student and possibly every professor as well, read the copy because of the Education Decree that stated that it was banned on school grounds.


Near the end of the year, Harry had a vision that his godfather, Sirius Black, was being tortured by Lord Voldemort in the Department of Mysteries. Luna and Ginny stood guard while Harry and Hermione snuck into Professor Umbridge's office, to use the fireplace to try to contact Sirius, while Ron attempted to distract Umbridge. However, they were caught, along with Neville Longbottom, by Umbridge and members of the Inquisitorial Squad. They were restrained and gagged, but Luna hardly seemed bothered by this as she was staring, dreamily, through the window as if bored.

Harry and Hermione drew Umbridge away into the Forbidden Forest, and Luna, Ginny, Ron, and Neville managed to escape from the Inquisitorial Squad using a variety of hexes and jinxes. When they all met up again in the forest, Harry planned to go to the Ministry of Magic. Luna reminded Harry about the Thestrals and suggested using them to get to the Ministry. She then mounted her Thestral side-saddle, "as though she did this every day". She also helped Ron, Hermione and Ginny mount their Thestrals, as the animals were invisible to them. The six D.A. members flew to the Ministry and entered the Department of Mysteries, where Luna heard voices coming from behind a Veil, just as Harry did. The group was soon ambushed by twelve Death Eaters.

Luna participated in the battle that ensued. She mainly protected Ron, who had been hit with a spell that made him highly confused. Luna also attacked a Death Eater who had seized Ginny's ankle with the Reductor Curse, which destroyed a model of the planet Pluto. The model blew up in the Death Eater's face; however, the impact broke Ginny's ankle. Luna then guided both the injured Ginny and the Confunded Ron until they met up with Harry and Neville.

Luna was one of the last D.A. members to fall, eventually being stunned by a Death Eater and thrown across the room. She regained focus just before the end of the battle and survived relatively unscathed. At the end of the school year, Luna spoke to Harry, who was mourning the murder of his godfather and had found no comfort in talking to ghosts. Luna told him about her mother's death and her belief that she would see her again someday, and how Harry might be able to see his godfather again, which was a comforting thought to Harry.

That summer, Luna and her father went to Sweden using the money the Daily Prophet paid them to reprint The Quibbler's interview with Harry to see if they could catch a Crumple-Horned Snorkack.

Fifth year

This year was Luna's O.W.L. year. On her way to Hogwarts in the Hogwarts Express, Luna shared a compartment with Harry Potter and she was accompanied by Neville Longbottom. Luna was holding another edition of the Quibbler, which she told Harry was going strong because of his interview. She then put on a brightly coloured pair of free "Spectrespecs" that were from inside the Quibbler. She was very disappointed to find out that the D.A. would not continue that year. When Romilda Vane asked Harry if he wanted to join her and her friends in another compartment, while treating Luna and Neville with disdain, Harry coldly rebuffed her, stating that they were his friends. Luna correctly observed that people expected Harry to associate with "cooler" people; he replied that she and Neville were cool, and among his closest and most trustworthy friends.

Towards Christmas, Luna comforted Hermione Granger after Ron Weasley mocked her in Transfiguration and Hermione ran into the girl's bathroom in tears. Luna had found Hermione crying and Harry had been looking for Hermione to return the books she left in Transfiguration class. After Hermione left, Harry asked Luna if she would like to go to Professor Slughorn's Christmas party with him, just as friends, and Luna excitedly accepted his invitation.


Luna wore a set of spangled silver robes that was attracting a certain amount of giggling from the onlookers, but she otherwise looked quite nice. While there, she conversed with multiple people, and took an interest in Sanguini, a vampire guest. She also made Harry laugh so hard that mead came out of his nose when she discussed the Rotfang Conspiracy after Professor Snape sneered at Harry's ambition to become an Auror. She continued the discussion of the Rotfang Conspiracy with Professor Trelawney, who seemed completely interested. Luna was also present when Draco Malfoy was caught out of bed after hours by Filch and dragged into the party to be punished.

Also that year, Luna would temporarily replace Zacharias Smith as Quidditch commentator for the school. Many found Luna's commentary amusing, as Luna forgot players' names and went off on tangents such as speculating that Smith, who was unable to maintain procession of the Quaffle for longer than a minute, was suffering from "Loser's Lurgy", or saying how a cloud was interestingly shaped. She never actually reported the score, leaving Professor McGonagall to report it. However, after Ron heard this commentary, which he found highly amusing, he said "you know, Luna's grown on me," when previously he found her very strange and slightly off-putting.

Luna once gave Harry a note from Albus Dumbledore telling him to come to his office for a private lesson. At the end of the school year, the castle came under attack by Death Eaters, and Luna was one of the few D.A. members to participate in the ensuing Battle of the Astronomy Tower, along with Neville, Ginny, Ron, and Hermione. Harry asked her and Hermione to watch Snape's office, which they did, but Snape told them that Death Eaters were in the castle and that they had to look after Professor Flitwick, whom he claimed had collapsed. After taking Felix Felicis from Harry, the D.A. members were almost untouchable, and all survived the battle unscathed except Neville, who was injured but soon recovered. Luna helped him into his seat when they attended Albus Dumbledore's funeral at the end of the school year.


Sixth year

On 1 August 1997, Luna and her father Xenophilius attended the wedding of Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour at The Burrow. Luna was able to instantly recognise Harry Potter, who was disguised as a Weasley cousin by use of Polyjuice Potion, by only his expression. She wore yellow robes, at her father's insistence, and had a sunflower in her hair. Her father believed that wearing sun colours to weddings brought luck. Luna sat at the same table as Harry, Hermione, and Ron. At one point, while under the influence of gnome saliva, Luna started dancing by herself, twirling on the dance floor with her arms raised. This drew attention from a few onlookers, as it was a very bizarre sight.

That day, the Ministry of Magic was taken over by Voldemort, so it was to a Death Eater-controlled Hogwarts that Luna returned for her sixth year. On 1 September, Death Eaters boarded the train in search of Harry Potter, but were unsuccessful in capturing him because he wasn't on board. Severus Snape had also been appointed Headmaster and Death Eaters Alecto and Amycus Carrow professors. Early in the year, Luna, Ginny, and Neville attempted to steal the Sword of Gryffindor from the Headmaster's office, in an effort to help Harry. Snape caught them and sent them into the Forbidden Forest with Rubeus Hagrid as punishment. The three of them revived and led Dumbledore's Army, which tried to sabotage the Death Eaters' control of the school and to help Harry, Ron and Hermione — who were off hunting down Voldemort's Horcruxes — in any way they could.

On her way home over the Christmas holidays, Death Eaters captured Luna because her father had been printing stories in support of Harry.

Capture and escape

It was believed that Luna was held captive at Azkaban, though she was actually imprisoned in the basement of Malfoy Manor, along with the famed wandmaker Garrick Ollivander, to whom she proved a great comfort. Xenophilius was so desperate to get her back that he tried to turn Harry, Hermione, and Ron over to the Ministry in exchange for her freedom; the trio escaped, but Hermione ensured that the Death Eaters Xenophilius called glimpsed Harry as they left, so that neither he nor Luna would be punished. The Lovegoods' home was largely destroyed with an erumpent horn, which Xenophilius had believed to be a Crumple-Horned Snorkack's, blew up inside. After the failed ambush, Xenophilius was taken to Azkaban for the remainder of the war.

The prisoners in Malfoy Manor were soon joined by Harry, Ron, Dean Thomas, and Griphook the goblin, while Hermione was tortured for information upstairs by Bellatrix Lestrange. After Luna helped cut the ropes off their new cell-mates, Dobby the house-elf came to free them. He took Luna, Dean and Ollivander to Shell Cottage, the home of Bill and Fleur Weasley, and then returned to assist Harry, Hermione, Ron and Griphook in escaping the Manor. He died in rescuing them.

Up until the Battle of Hogwarts, Luna stayed at the cottage for the remainder of the war, and when Dobby was buried, she closed the house-elf's eyes and provided the eulogy, thanking him for rescuing her. During her stay, she practised using a new wand that Ollivander had made for her. She also seemed to have started a friendship with Dean. It is unknown what Luna did after Harry, Ron and Hermione left Shell Cottage in order to break into Gringotts Wizarding Bank, but she returned to Hogwarts in May when Neville signalled her as to the trio's return. All of Dumbledore's Army was reassembled and prepared to fight.

Battle of Hogwarts

When the trio asked the Ravenclaw D.A. members if they were familiar with an item that had once belonged to their house founder, Luna mentioned the lost diadem. She took Harry to the Ravenclaw common room, answering the riddle "What came first, the Phoenix or the flame?" with "A circle has no beginning." in order to gain entrance and show him a replica of the diadem. There, she stunned Alecto Carrow, who was waiting for them per Lord Voldemort's orders. When given the choice, she joined the battle rather than evacuating with the younger students. She stood side-by-side with fellow D.A. members, students, as well as her professors and helped hold back Voldemort's army of Death Eaters and Dark creatures.

It is unknown exactly what Luna did after accompanying Harry to Ravenclaw Tower. However, at one point she, Ernest Macmillan, and Seamus Finnigan helped the trio drive off a group of Dementors that attacked them by casting their Patronuses. Luna encouraged Harry to think of something happy, enabling him to summon his Patronus as well. It was Harry's Patronus that caused the Dementors to finally scatter. Luna and the others slipped back into the battle. She was present when Voldemort reported Harry supposed "death" and when Neville bravely stood up to Voldemort. It can be assumed that she was horrified when Neville was set on fire because of his defiance of the Dark Lord.

Near the end of the battle, she fought against Bellatrix Lestrange, alongside Hermione and Ginny. When Bellatrix cast a Killing Curse at Ginny that missed by a mere milometer, Molly Weasley stepped in and killed her. Luna witnessed Harry Potter's final defeat of Lord Voldemort and was among the first to congratulate him. A little while later, she created a diversion so that Harry could slip away from the victory celebrations with Ron and Hermione, and have a little break.


Later life (1999–)

After leaving school, Luna became a famous wizarding naturalist, travelling the world in search of strange creatures. She discovered and classified many species that had never been encountered before, but was never able to find the Crumple-Horned Snorkack.

Luna married fellow naturalist Rolf Scamander, grandson of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them author Newt Scamander, considerably later in life than Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny, who all married and started families in their early-to-mid twenties. According to Rita Skeeter, Luna wore a wedding dress decorated with rainbows and spangles, and a tiara of silver unicorn horns, which her husband supposedly looked at with a shocked expression. This dress was voted 'Most Hideous Outfit of the Year' by readers of Rita Skeeter's regular Daily Prophet column. The couple also had twin sons named Lorcan and Lysander.


During the late 2000s or early 2010s, Luna returned to Hogwarts to assist Rubeus Hagrid in investigating the mysterious infestation of baby Manticores within the school grounds. She brought a suitcase that contained magical creatures including a Hippogriff and several Thunderbirds, and released them when she opened it. She watched some students playing on the Quidditch pitch with Hagrid and spotted the Manticores on the field, heading towards the Forbidden Forest. They were later joined by one of the students, who flew towards Hagrid's Hut on a broom and was forced to land early due to one of the Thunderbirds "sneezing" by creating a local thunderstorm. They conversed about the possibility of a Manticore mother existing somewhere on the grounds.

Later, Luna went to the Forbidden Forest to investigate and was found by the student. Imitating their walk, they got near the baby Manticores and eventually arrived at a dark cave. The Manticore mother appeared in a clearing and attempted to attack them, and they defended themselves against her. After the student managed to temporarily restrain the Manticore using the Incarcerous Spell, Luna grabbed them and Apparated back to the edge of the forest where they were greeted by Hagrid.

When Luna was preparing to leave Hogwarts, she left the suitcase in Hagrid's hands and they asked the student to help him with it. She recalled that her husband's grandfather, Newt Scamander, had a suitcase just like this one, which was filled with dozens of different environments designed for different creatures. This excited the student, and Luna encouraged them to be kind and respectful to the beasts within the suitcase so that they could offer much in return.

When Hogwarts fell under the attack of Dementors, Luna went back to defend her alma mater. She met Cassandra Vole and the aforementioned unidentified student in the Great Hall while they were talking about making friends, and remarked that despite the dark times, it was still an opportunity to make as many friends as possible. Cassandra was surprised at this and blurted out that she was not her friend, but Luna believed true friends were always by one's side as long as one really looked. She recalled battling against Dementors with the trio and talked about how friendship could make things better, and ultimately, the battle was about protecting friends and family. Cassandra then admitted that she agreed with her, and Luna left to see a friend.

When other Dark creatures joined the attack and things became much worse, Luna helped students and staff set up a spherical shield around the castle. She also fought in the big battle that brought the attacks to an end, and was there with her comrades when Harry Potter arrived and cast the final Patronus Charm.

At some point later, Luna returned to Hogwarts to become the professor of Field Studies, a brand new course. She met her students in the Great Hall with Headmistress McGonagall and Archibald Eagleton, the Ministry counsellor of the course. After McGonagall introduced her to the students, she explained that they would visit some interesting locations to study magical creatures, so long as they met the age requirement and passed the Ministry's preliminary exam, which she and Archibald guaranteed would be fun and involve demonstration of knowledge and self-protection.

She led the students to the Forbidden Forest. Unaware of the destination, the students speculated where they were headed. Luna heard some exciting ideas, and said that anticipation was often better than reality. They met Archibald, who revealed where they would be going, and Luna instructed the students to proceed to the camp. She then spoke with the unidentified student in private and asked them not to tell Archibald about the suitcase since he often disagreed with Newt Scamander and argued about his, and let them rejoin the class.

At the camp, Luna asked her students to familiarise themselves with the facilities, and pointed them to the places where clues were stored and where they could improve their investigative skills. For the unidentified student's first test, Archibald and Luna presented them with three suitcases with unknown "dangerous" beasts. The student opened one and found a Niffler, and Archibald began telling his experience with Nifflers and how they were crafty and greedy. Luna found his story interesting but reminded him to ask questions. The student answered the questions correctly, and Luna congratulated them for passing the test.

Before the last test, Archibald recalled his encounter with a Graphorn. Luna wondered what it had to do with the test, and Archibald said it was about preparing for any possible situation. Hagrid then approached them and asked if they had seen Borklump. Luna mistook it for Horklump, but Hagrid said it was his Mooncalf who went missing. Archibald stated that searching for him would be the next test and prepared to lead the students deep into the forest. Luna suggested they search separately due to the forest's vastness, and Archibald converted the mission into a contest and wished Luna good luck.

She went with some students, and when they were scared by some noises, she reminded them the creatures wouldn't attack unless provoked. She followed her sighting of a tail and discovered Borklump being stranded amidst spider webs and trying to free himself. She also sensed they were being watched, and soon Acromantulas appeared behind them. She told the students to raise their wands but not to attack, as they were, from the creatures' perspective, intruders who were attempting to steal their dinner. They held them off and managed to get away with Borklump. Luna thought Archibald and Hagrid would be glad with their success, but regarded the Mooncalf to be more of a "Pietro". Nevertheless, she witnessed the students' capabilities and announced that they had passed the exam.

On the way back, they encountered something else that was in trouble. Luna asked Robyn Thistlethwaite and Kevin Farrell to return Borklump to Hagrid, and continued with the unidentified student. They found a Moke, which Luna feared was wanted by poachers for making Mokeskin pouches. The student freed it from its trap, and Luna noticed it took a liking to them. They went back to the camp and met Hagrid again, and the student showed Hagrid what Luna had given them, but Luna asked them to talk about it another time. They then watched as Archibald declared them to be eligible Magizoologists qualified for Field Studies and cast magical fireworks in the sky.

For the first formal Field Studies class, Luna and her students travelled via Portkey to an unidentified desert to study the Thunderbird. Upon landing, she quickly taught the unidentified student a few things about how to make friends with magical creatures, such as drawing their attention with berries and waiting for them to accept the human's presence. She then wished them well in their investigation and hoped that they could make many friends with the creatures and enjoy the unique landscape, while reminding them that the desert also had its danger.

Robyn and Kevin were at the time using Omnioculars to inspect the field, so she and the unidentified student joined them. Through the device, they witnessed a thunderstorm in the distance, and Luna commented that if it was caused by a Thunderbird, it must not have been in a pleasant mood. They then saw a lady struggling to walk towards them, so they hurried in front to receive her. When the lady claimed that she was looking for the lot, Luna realised that she was Qui LeBlanc, their photographer, and listened to her story of being hit by the storm. Qui also recognised who Luna was, and together they set off on their search of the Thunderbird.

Deep into the desert, Luna found the feathers and marks of what could only have been a Thunderbird, and called out to the students to let them see and report to her about their findings. She then analysed that the Thunderbird must've just been in a fight, but with what she couldn't tell. She decided that they should look for it in case it was hurt. After the students went on an adventure and got back safely, Luna continued to wait with them for the Thunderbird to appear. A while later, Cassandra Vole had gotten restless, and Luna advised her to be patient as things in nature might not follow the schedules of visitors.

Suddenly, Colby Frey was trapped in a cage, and after the unidentified student rescued him from it, Luna said that it shouldn't have been prepared for any of them, and Qui recognised it as having likely been set up by poachers, only that it was different from the ones she'd seen in Brazil, which were set up for Nogtails and were much smaller. Luna noticed Qui's familiarity with poachers, which Qui attributed to the nature of her work. She then proposed to the students that they do a more thorough search, and later the unidentified student reported that they found more feathers, chain and ropes, but whatever might've been trapped in there had gotten away. Luna was not able to dismiss the possibility of them being the work of poachers, but also thought it needed more than those to capture a Thunderbird.

During another investigation session, Luna was shocked to find the unidentified student posing with a Thunderbird egg while Qui took their picture, and urged them to stop before the Thunderbird mother came back. Qui tried to assure her that the mother should still be far away and that they were safe, but Luna reminded her that it was the professor who was responsible for the students' safety. She asked if the student was all right and prepared to leave, but was, to her dismay, caught by the Thunderbird mother. As the creature gazed at them, the student asked what to do, and Luna told them to stay still lest she considered them a threat. Despite her warnings that the Thunderbird was defending her nest, the student attempted to put the egg back in it, which angered the Thunderbird. Luna then watched as the student was attacked and dropped from the cliff.

As Qui went down to take care of the student, Luna examined the Thunderbird and saw that she had multiple injuries as well as being poisoned by Runespoor venom. She and the rest of her students calmed the Thunderbird down and cleaned her wounds, but still found her upset about losing her egg. She also contacted a friend living nearby that had access to phoenixes, and requested for some of their tears to heal the Thunderbird. Later, she found the unidentified student unconscious not far from the camp, and when they awoke, she asked them about how they survived. The student noted that it was Qui that had rescued them twice, which Luna found curious since Qui had seemingly disappeared. They talked about the Thunderbird and its missing egg, and Luna thought it best to heal the Thunderbird first.

She went back with the student to where the Thunderbird was and explained her condition to them. The student felt sorry for not being able to do more, but Luna encouraged them to do what they could to heal her. She explained further about the Runespoor-poisoning, mentioning how the Thunderbird could've been killed if it had been more severe, and inspired the student to use Episkey to mend the broken wings and the Murtlap Essence to treat the abrasions. An owl then arrived carrying the phoenix tears she needed, and though she was not sure whether they could treat Runespoor bites, she nevertheless let the student use them on the wounds, and saw with pleasure that they seemed to be working, giving them a good start.

They watched the Thunderbird take flight, and the student asked if she would be fully healed, to which Luna responded that physically she would, but the loss of her egg she would not easily get over. The student regretted trusting Qui and vowed to bring the egg back, which reminded Luna of someone she knew that was also dedicated to finding the truth. She informed them that a second egg had been damaged, and without care from its unwilling mother, it might never hatch. The student got the idea of building the egg a nest in their suitcase, which Luna found demanding as the baby Thunderbird, once hatched, needed continued caring until it was able to be released into the wild, but the student promised her it would be done. Luna, however, thought it better to let Hagrid care for the egg and notified him to come. She found the disappointed student sitting with the egg and explained that it was in the best interest of the Thunderbird.

Purchasing Moon Frogs
At some point, Luna went to Diagon Alley to purchase some Moon Frogs, which she believed to have been brought back by a wizard who flew to the moon on a broomstick. She encountered the unidentified student there and noticed they were a bit muddled, indicating there might be Wrackspurts flying around their head. The student was not familiar with the creature and learnt what it was from Luna, who stressed the importance of attentive observation. She then explained her intention of buying Moon Frogs. The student found it hard to believe that one could travel to the moon on a broomstick, but Luna thought nothing was impossible with magic and suggested wearing Dirigible Plum earrings to be able to more easily accept the extraordinary.

They went to buy potion ingredients together, and Luna also asked whether there were Crumple-Horned Snorkack horns. However, she didn't find either of the Moon Frogs or Snorkack horns. She recalled her past adventures without ever finding any Snorkacks, and said she was beginning to accept that the creature simply didn't exist. The student thought perhaps it just hadn't been discovered yet, citing Luna's words about observation, and expressed their willingness to believe in its existence and continue to search for it when they became a Magizoologist. Luna liked the idea and encouraged them to put due efforts in classes including Field Studies, hoping that they could explore the world together and find more magical creatures one day.

2014 Quidditch World Cup
In 2014, Luna and Rolf attended the 427th Quidditch World Cup along with the rest of her friends in Dumbledore's Army. She wore robes made of the flags of all sixteen qualifying countries, but her twins were at home with their grandpa and did not come. At the final match, she sat in the VIP boxes with Dumbledore's Army and her husband, where he held her hands, which might have been because he was trying to prevent his wife from putting on one of her famous Special Event Hats.

In 2019, during the Calamity, Luna met a Magizoologist member of the recently created Statute of Secrecy Task Force, whom she dazzled with her knowledge about the many ways in which magical creatures protected themselves. Luna also instructed them on how she performed the Stamina Charm, which instantly improved their casting when used on both themselves and teammates, and allowed them to accompany her in her search for Bowtruckles and Thunderbirds, mentoring them on how to detect and look after them and improving their focus.

Luna later hosted a gathering encouraging sustainable and cohabitative living with magical flora and fauna and focused on being open to new ideas and expanding environmental awareness. The gathering was attended by a Calamity Investigator working for the task force, who doubted the material but still learned how to better return Traces associated with Magizoology.

In May 2020, Luna and her lion-topped hat from her fourth year became a Foundable during a Calamity surge focused on the Inter-House Quidditch Cup. After her Foundable was returned to its proper time, the present Luna offered to Professor Minerva McGonagall that she would write to the Hogwarts board of governors on her behalf to let them know that being a Foundable had caused her no ill effects. During another surge focused on the members of Dumbledore's Army in November 2020, Luna sent Minister for Magic Hermione Granger an owl claiming that, since her fifth year-age Foundable had been returned, she clearly recalled an implanted memory in which a wizard cloaked in a hooded robe warned her that "the Unforgivable are everywhere." Luna claimed that the wizard sounded scared, not malicious, believing that they were intending to warn someone.

Physical description

In 1995, fourteen-year-old Luna had waist-length, straggly, dirty blonde hair, protuberant silvery eyes, which often seemed to be dreamily distracted, and faint eyebrows. She had an aura of "distinct dottiness" about her, and was known to put her wand behind her left ear for safekeeping.

Luna had a unique fashion sense that other people usually found bizarre. She often wore odd pieces of jewellery such as a Butterbeer cork necklace and Dirigible plum earrings, and in 1996, a pair of Spectrespecs. Luna also did not wear shoes because students in her house would take her shoes and hide them.

At Hogwarts Quidditch matches, Luna supported Gryffindor against every House except Ravenclaw; to show her support for Gryffindor, she would wear a hat in the shape of a lion head that roars, and to show support for Ravenclaw she would wear an eagle hat with flapping wings. At Professor Slughorn's Christmas party in 1996, she wore spangled silver robes. At Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour's wedding, she wore bright yellow robes because she was taught it brought luck to a wedding to wear sun colours and had a sunflower in her hair, as well. She was described as "pretty" on some occasions, despite her odd clothes.


Personality and traits

Luna was an extremely quirky girl, with a serene disposition and many eccentric beliefs and qualities. She was a complete nonconformist; she lacked self-consciousness and was not afraid to show who she truly was. Luna was also intelligent and unusually perceptive, having been sorted into Ravenclaw "where those of wit and learning will always find their kind". A prime example of Luna's perceptiveness was when she pointed out the ironically drastic measures taken against Sirius Black when he escaped Azkaban, but when ten Death Eaters (including Bellatrix Lestrange) escaped, barely any measures were taken to recapture them.

Although many thought Luna was bizarre, Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, Ron Weasley, Neville Longbottom, Ginny Weasley, Dean Thomas and Ollivander eventually became very fond of her.

Luna's demeanour and voice were often distant and dreamy; she would drift away from a conversation she did not find interesting. However, whenever someone made fun of her father or his magazine The Quibbler, the dreamy quality in her voice would vanish and be replaced by one of steel, and she would immediately become very angry. She had an uncanny way of making others uncomfortable by being bluntly honest — Harry Potter described her as having a "knack for embarrassing honesty". She was also completely unflappable and rarely seemed anxious or stressed, even under difficult circumstances such as being a prisoner of Malfoy Manor. Luna was very good at comforting others. She comforted Harry after his godfather's death and Mr Ollivander while they were imprisoned together.

Luna was often the subject of ridicule and had difficulty making friends. Other students gave her the nickname of "Loony Lovegood" and even stole and hid her things. She was unfazed by this, and instead chose to be non-judgmental and accepting of those around her. She once said that she did not like dancing much, though she did dance some at the wedding of Bill and Fleur, along with her father.

Luna seemed to have enjoyed artistic pursuits in her free time; her house was filled with various things that she painted. She even painted very life-like portraits of her friends that seemed to breathe. Luna was very loyal to the few friends she had — she published Rita Skeeter's interview of Harry Potter on The Quibbler (March issue, 1996) during the latter's fifth year and supported Harry even when he was outlawed by the Ministry of Magic. Ron stated that she certainly has far more courage than her father, who was at the time stressed when under duress. She also displayed admirable bravery during both the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and the Battle of Hogwarts.

Her curiosity and kindness persisted when she entered adulthood. During her tenure as the Field Studies professor at Hogwarts, she showed immense care and responsibility for her students, as can be seen when she feared for their safety.

Luna's beliefs

She seemed to believe everything she read in The Quibbler, mainly because her father wrote it. Some theories she believed in included: Sirius Black being Stubby Boardman, that Rufus Scrimgeour was a vampire, that the Aurors were part of the Rotfang Conspiracy to bring down the Ministry of Magic from within using Dark magic and gum disease, that the Tutshill Tornados were top of the league by a combination of bewitched brooms and torture, that Cornelius Fudge ordered goblins to be made into pies, drowned, or assassinated in other various ways, had an army of Heliopaths, and used the Department of Mysteries to develop terrible poisons to feed to anyone who disagreed with him.

Luna also believed in things that were proven true: Harry's story about Voldemort's return, the voices beyond the veil and the belief that there were people behind it, and that Hufflepuff Chaser Zacharias Smith was suffering from Loser's Lurgy. Loser's Lurgy is not proven to exist, but it was true that when Smith lost in Quidditch he thus acted accordingly.

Some of the animals she believed in were: Moon Frogs, Blibbering Humdingers, Crumple-Horned Snorkacks, Heliopaths, Umgubular Slashkilters, Nargles, Aquavirius Maggots, Wrackspurts, Gulping Plimpies, and Dabberblimps.

She also believed in the fable of the Lost Diadem, a crucial Ravenclaw item and a Horcrux, which turned out to be a turning point in Harry's battle against Voldemort.

Luna was shown to be a very powerful and talented witch. At the age of fourteen, she was able to conjure a corporeal Patronus — a very advanced piece of magic and proof that she possessed superior magical ability.

Defence Against the Dark Arts: As a committed member of Dumbledore's Army, Luna learned how to cast numerous defensive and offensive spells under the instruction of Harry Potter. Luna demonstrated her excellent defensive abilities by fighting in both the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of Hogwarts against numerous Death Eaters, and surviving all of them.
Duelling: Despite her young age, Luna was a very competent duellist. At the age of fifteen, she participated in and survived the Battle of the Department of Mysteries with no more than a few minor injuries. She also emerged from the Battle of the Astronomy Tower with no major injuries. During the Battle of Hogwarts she, Hermione, and Ginny duelled against the notorious Bellatrix Lestrange and emerged as one of the survivors.
Charms: In her fourth year, Luna learned how to conjure a corporeal Patronus in the form of a hare, which is an incredibly advanced, powerful and protective charm, as well as a mark of superior magical ability and talent, showing her proficiency for charm-work. She could also cast simple charms such as the Locking Spell, Reductor Curse, Stunning Spell, Levitation Charm, Revelio Charm and Wand-Lighting Charm successfully without difficulty.
Nonverbal magic: In 1998, Luna wordlessly stunned the Death Eater Alecto Carrow with the Stunning Spell, while inside Ravenclaw Tower. The fact that she could effectively cast it nonverbally is a testament of sorts to her skill, since non-verbal magic is highly difficult, N.E.W.T.-level magic.

Care of Magical Creatures: She may have studied this subject at Hogwarts. As an adult Luna became a famous Magizoologist, a wizarding naturalist. She discovered and classified many species that had never been encountered before. She was also shown to be very skilled at handling various magical creatures, such as Thestrals, showing her proficiency in Magizoology.
Study of Ancient Runes: In the July/August edition of The Quibbler in 1995, Luna was able to read that issue's segment written in Ancient runes upside down, heavily implying she was able to understand and translate such runes. This also implies that she may have studied the subject at Hogwarts.
Creative intellect: Luna was a very creative, artistic and witty witch. She invented a lion-shaped hat that, with a tap of a wand, made a realistic roar, and she made a flapping eagle hat of the same kind. She also painted on her bedroom's ceiling the portraits of Harry Potter, Ron Weasley, Hermione Granger, Ginny Weasley, and Neville Longbottom, woving them with a "chain" consisting of a single word, "friends", "repeated a thousand of times in golden ink", and it is suggested that she painted birds, flowers and insects on the walls of the kitchen of her family house. All of this show her impressive skills as an artist.
Leadership skills: At the age of sixteen, Luna co-led Dumbledore's Army along with her friends, Ginny and Neville. Their leadership was so efficient that she was abducted in an attempt to force the resistance to surrender, though she was ultimately rescued by Harry and Ron.

Possessions
Wand: Luna Lovegood's first wand was of unknown length, wood and core material. This wand she used through out her life as a Hogwarts student, until she was captured and her wand confiscated and broken by Death Eaters in the middle of her sixth year. Her second wand was of unknown length, wood, and core material as well. It was made by Garrick Ollivander in the spring of 1998 after his rescue from Malfoy Manor.
Lion hat: Luna created this hat that had the appearance of an ordinary pointed hat topped with a fake stuffed lion. When she tapped the hat with her wand, it let out an extremely realistic roar. She wore it to show her support of Gryffindor whenever they played against the Slytherin Quidditch team.
Eagle hat: Luna wore this hat whenever the Ravenclaw Quidditch team played against the Gryffindor Quidditch team. On top of the hat was what appeared to be a living eagle, which flapped its wings.
Dress robes: Luna wore silver dress robes to the Slug Club Christmas party in 1996 when she was taken as a guest by Harry Potter. Luna also owned a pair of yellow dress robes that she wore to the wedding of Bill and Fleur in 1997.
Beetle wing earrings: This was one of the items on her lost possessions list. She, at first, had believed they were stolen and taken away by Nargles, but then later realised it was just her classmates.
Silver star earrings: Luna wore these to the Slug Club Christmas Party in 1996, along with her silver dress robes.
Dirigible plum-shaped earrings: Luna wore these earrings when she expressed her belief in Harry during 1995. In 1998, Harry noticed a bush covered in exceptionally strange and orange, radish-like fruit called Dirigible Plum and noted their striking resemblance to Luna's earrings.
Hare bracelet: This bracelet was owned by Luna. It was made of a golden material and adorned with a small hare penchant, similar to her Patronus.
Patterned shoes: Luna has a pair of patterned Converse sneakers, with what looks likes strawberries on them. They were stolen by some other pupils and hidden, with the rest of her shoes. Luna often had to walk around barefoot because of this.
Purple Quill: Luna owned this quill during the 1995–1996 school year before it was stolen by her classmates. It was produced from a feather of a woodpecker.

Butterbeer cork necklace: She often wore it during her school days, to keep away Nargles. Many of the students found this odd.
Beetle ring: Luna wore this ring in 1995 and possibly earlier.
Bubble Bow Booster: Luna owned a kit that was still in its original packaging, but someone took it from her and hid it during the 1995–1996 school year.
Sum-solving ink: This was a type of ink that presumably helped solve mathematical problems. Luna owned a bottle of turquoise sum-solving ink, but someone took it from her and hid it during her fourth year.
Dumbledore's Army coin: Luna owned one of these coins as a member of Dumbledore's Army.
Easy Spells to Fool Muggles: Luna owned a copy of this book by Luca Caruso but, it was stolen from her sometime during the 1995–1996 school year.

Spectrespecs: Luna owned and wore a pair of Spectrespecs on the train ride to Hogwarts in 1996. The spectrespecs were large and colourful and were given away free in an issue of The Quibbler in 1996.
Suitcase: Luna formerly owned a suitcase similar to her husband's grandfather's that contained a Hippogriff and several Thunderbirds. In the 2010–2011 school year, she gave the suitcase to Rubeus Hagrid and an unidentified Hogwarts student.

Relationships
Family
Luna's father Xenophilius
With the death of her mother when she was nine years old, Luna was raised solely by her father. Because of this, she was an only child and the two were very close. Xenophilius raised his daughter to share many of his unusual beliefs, and the two enjoyed going on holidays to look for creatures such as Crumple-Horned Snorkacks in Sweden. Luna believed anything her father wrote in The Quibbler magazine, and came to his defence when Hermione Granger claimed the magazine was "rubbish".

When Luna was abducted by Death Eaters in 1997 to force Xenophilius to stop opposing the Voldemort-controlled Ministry of Magic in The Quibbler, her father was beside himself. He was desperate to the point of ceasing his public support of Harry Potter and attempting to turn him, Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley over to the Death Eaters in exchange for Luna's safety. When he failed to do so, Xenophilius was arrested by Selwyn and Travers. Luna would also eventually meet Rolf Scamander, grandson of the famous Newt Scamander and his wife Porpentina. Rolf would become her husband and the union would produce twins, Lorcan and Lysander.

Harry Potter
When Harry Potter first met Luna in 1995, he found her rather odd, but was grateful that she was one of the few people to believe his story that Lord Voldemort had returned, and sympathised with the loss of her mother and her status as an outcast. After the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, they discussed the death of Sirius Black and the possibility of an afterlife. Harry "found that the terrible weight in his stomach seemed to have lessened slightly".

At the beginning of the next school year, he reacted coldly when Romilda Vane implied that Luna and Neville Longbottom were not worth spending time with; a contrast to the previous year, when he felt slightly embarrassed that his crush Cho Chang saw him in Luna's company. In 1996, Harry asked Luna to attend Professor Slughorn's Christmas party with him as friends after reflecting on how "he had never met anyone quite like her". Harry was one of the portraits of her friends that Luna painted and hung on her bedroom ceiling, to which, upon Harry's discovery in the last book during his Horcrux-seeking journey, made him feel "a great rush of affection" towards her.

When Harry took Polyjuice Potion to look like Barny at the Wedding of William Weasley and Fleur Delacour, she recognised him from the expression on his face, hinting again at the closeness of their friendship, as she was not fooled for a minute by his disguise. Shortly before going to sacrifice himself during the Battle of Hogwarts, Harry noted that Luna was among his closest friends, whom he had hoped to see one last time before his death. After Voldemort's defeat at Harry's hands, Luna sensed that Harry wanted to get away from the victory celebrations, and created a distraction so that he could slip away with Ron and Hermione.

Later in life, Harry and Luna would remain close friends. He and Ginny even gave their daughter the middle name "Luna" in honour of her. It's also quite possible that Harry became friends with her husband (Rolf Scamander) and close to her twins, Lorcan and Lysander.

Hermione Granger
Luna and Hermione Granger did not have an ideal first meeting, as Hermione called The Quibbler "rubbish" without knowing that Luna's father was the editor. She was initially frustrated with Luna's belief in all manner of things without logical grounds or proof. However, she invited Luna to Dumbledore's Army and the two became friends. Hermione's opinion of Luna particularly seemed to improve after Luna proved her loyalty and bravery by participating in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, as she simply accepted that she and Luna had very different world views. The following school year, Luna comforted Hermione over her fight with Ron Weasley when she ended up crying in the bathroom at one point.
At Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour's wedding, Hermione tried to kick Ron for teasing Luna, and later defended her again from the insults of the portrait of Phineas Nigellus Black. Hermione was among the portraits Luna painted on her bedroom ceiling, circled by the words "friends". When Luna's father attempted to turn Harry, Ron and Hermione over to Death Eaters in exchange for his daughter's safety in 1998, Hermione engineered their escape so that the Death Eaters saw Harry briefly, thus ensuring that both Luna and her father were not harmed.
Luna and Hermione also fought at the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of Hogwarts, where she, Seamus Finnigan, and Ernie Macmillan saved Hermione, Harry and Ron from Dementors. During the final stage of the battle, Luna, Hermione, and Ginny Weasley fought together against Bellatrix Lestrange, Voldemort's most powerful Death Eater. Hermione and Luna both survived the war, and it can be presumed that the pair remained very good friends during adulthood as well. Luna may be one of the best female friends of Hermione (along with Ginny), as she was only seen with these girls during her school-time at Hogwarts.

Ron Weasley

At the beginning of their acquaintance, Ron Weasley thought Luna was weird and was not particularly interested in knowing her, even occasionally referring to her as "Loony." Luna, on the other hand, seemed to find Ron very funny but rather insensitive in his relationships at times. Ron eventually grew fonder of Luna, marking her as his good friend, after getting to know her better through Dumbledore's Army and her being one of the only D.A. members to come to the trio's assistance when they tried to save Sirius Black, during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries.
He was particularly amused by her Quidditch commentary in 1996 and thought highly of her bravery. When she attended his brother Bill's wedding, Ron was further amused by her behaviour and remarked that she gave "good value". However, Ron was still prone to tease Luna and scoff at her unusual beliefs at times. Ron and Luna also fought at the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of Hogwarts, where she, Seamus Finnigan and Ernie Macmillan saved Ron, Harry and Hermione from Dementors. Ron and Luna both survived the war, and the good friends remained in contact in adulthood.

Ginny Weasley

Luna and Ginny Weasley were in the same year at Hogwarts, though in different houses; Ginny was in Gryffindor whereas Luna was in Ravenclaw. Ginny seemed to find Luna rather peculiar, as she first referred to Luna as "Loony Lovegood" (though in an affectionate way). The two were very friendly, as Ginny led Harry Potter and Neville Longbottom into her train compartment in 1995, conversing politely with her.

Luna became one of Ginny's best friends through Dumbledore's Army, and Ginny began telling others not to call Luna "Loony", prompting Luna to randomly state during her Quidditch commentary that Ginny was nice and she liked her. Along with Neville, Luna and Ginny led the re-formed Dumbledore's Army while Hogwarts was under Voldemort's control. Ginny was also one of the five portraits — along with Harry, Ron, Hermione, and Neville — that Luna painted and hung from her bedroom ceiling, with the word "friends" joining them together in gold writing.

Ginny and Harry Potter named their daughter after Luna, considering Luna is a "dear friend". Luna may be one of the best female friends of Ginny (along with Hermione), as she was only seen with these girls during her school-time at Hogwarts. Indeed, Ginny insisted Luna to guide Harry into Ravenclaw Tower over Cho Chang, confidently trusting her to not incite any clash of romance as Cho might have.

Neville Longbottom
Luna and Neville Longbottom, a Gryffindor student, first met on the Hogwarts Express, in 1995. Neville found Luna a bit "odd", as she believed in the existence of strange, mythical creatures, had a tendency to read magazines upside down, and wore earrings that appeared to be made of radishes. Luna, like Harry and Neville, had the ability to see Thestrals, as they had all seen someone die. Neville fought alongside Luna at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of Hogwarts.

At some point, they became very close friends. During Luna's sixth year at Hogwarts, she, Neville and Ginny, re-formed and co-led Dumbledore's Army in order to oppose the Carrows.

Dumbledore's Army
After they were both rescued from Malfoy Manor in 1998, Luna and Dean Thomas seemed to grow close while staying at Shell Cottage. Dean still seemed rather bemused at some of the odd things Luna said at times, but did not ridicule her and was seen helping her in the Room of Requirement just before the Battle of Hogwarts. Luna also grew close with many of the other D.A. members, such as Seamus Finnigan and Ernie Macmillan, who she was seen fighting alongside during the Battle of Hogwarts.
Luna had met other members of Dumbledore's Army; there were Padma Patil, Cho Chang, Terry Boot, Anthony Goldstein, Michael Corner, and Marietta Edgecombe from her house (all of them fought at the Battle of Hogwarts, except Marietta), Hannah Abbott, Justin Finch-Fletchley, Susan Bones, and Zacharias Smith from Hufflepuff (it is possible that all of them fought at the Battle of Hogwarts, except Zacharias), and Fred and George Weasley, Angelina Johnson, Katie Bell, Lavender Brown, Alicia Spinnet, Lee Jordan, Parvati Patil, Padma's twin sister, and Colin and Dennis Creevey from Gryffindor. Fred, Lavender and Colin were killed at the Battle of Hogwarts. While most of the Other D.A. Members, (with the exception of Marietta) are unknown following the Battle of Hogwarts.


Other friendships
Luna liked Dobby the house-elf, who came to rescue her from Malfoy Manor. After Dobby was killed by Bellatrix Lestrange, Luna closed his eyes, to make him "seem like he was sleeping". She also said a few words to Dobby during his funeral.
Luna had also met Garrick Ollivander, the wandmaker, at the Malfoy Manor, where they were both imprisoned. She comforted Ollivander, and gave him courage. After they both escaped, Ollivander, who had grown quite fond of Luna, made her a new wand. She also met Bill Weasley and Fleur Delacour when she stayed for a few weeks at their house, Shell Cottage. She left Shell Cottage when she, Dean, Bill, and Fleur went to fight in the Battle of Hogwarts.
Luna thought Rubeus Hagrid was a poor teacher, saying that the students in Ravenclaw thought him to be a bit of a joke, and that she preferred Professor Grubbly-Plank. It is possible this opinion started to change during Umbridge's control of Hogwarts, as they were both against Umbridge and Luna credited Hagrid's teaching of Thestrals, which allowed them to go to the Ministry of Magic when they believed Sirius Black was in danger. During the 1997–1998 school year, Luna and Hagrid both acted in opposition to the Death Eaters' regime at Hogwarts, and Luna, along with Ginny and Neville, once served detention with Hagrid in the Forbidden Forest when they were caught by Snape.
